<a name="br1"></a> 

MULTHYPTEST PACKAGE

1\. Description

This package was designed to implement hypothesis and power tests relating to constrained regression

problems as outlined in Frank Wolak’s paper, Testing Inequality Constraints in Linear Economic Models

(1989). However, that is not to say that its use should be limited to solely constrained regression; the

package does generalize to any hypothesis/power question as long as certain conditions (like normality) are

met. There are two main hypotheses that this package can implement using the hyptest and complex hyptest

functions. First is equality vs inequality (EI). Given a test variable, x ∈ R<sup>n</sup>, a constraint matrix G, and

constraint vector h, the null hypothesis in the EI test asserts that Gx=h, while the alternative is that

Gx≥h. The second hypothesis this package inspects is inequality vs unrestricted (IU). In this test, the null

asserts that Gx≥h and the alternative is that x is unconstrained or x ∈ R<sup>n</sup>. Both the EI and IU hypothesis

tests provide critical insight to determine whether it is reasonable to place diﬀerent constraints on a test

variable given its mean and covariance structure. In the context of regression, these tests help determine

whether hypothesized constraints placed on Beta should be considered or not. Like in any hypothesis test,

the null should be rejected if the p-value generated by the hyptest or complex hyptest function is less than

the desired signiﬁgance level of the test (tests are all one-sided in implementation so don’t manipulate the

outputted p-value). The last component of this package is the mult power function which calculates the

power associated with the IU and EI test. Viewing this in the context of regression, the power is other

metric of how reasonable it is to impose the hypothesized constraints on Beta. In simple terms, power helps

describe how much an unconstrained test term would diﬀer from its constrained counterpart; high power

indicates a large diﬀerence, while a small power indicates a small diﬀerence.

2\. Functions

2\.1. hyptest.

2\.1.1. Usage. The hyptest function can perform the IU and EI hypothesis tests exactly as outlined in the

description. Should your analysis requires using a mixture of inequality and equality constraints in your null

hypothesis at the same time, use complex hyptest instead.

2\.1.2. Inputs. hyptest requires 5 inputs

cov: The estimated covariance matrix of your data

mean hat: The estimated mean (estimated Beta in regression context)

G: The hypothesized quadratic constraint matrix so that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

h: The hypothesized quadratic constraint vector such that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

type: To run the IU test, input “IU”. To run the EI test, input “EI”

2\.1.3. Return. Graphs the distribution of the test statistic and outputs a parametrically and non-parametrically

calculated p-value associated with the Beta hat given the covariance structure and null constraints.

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>×3

2\.1.4. Examples. Below is an example where the term is β ∈

with covariance Σ ∈

EI test: H : β = 0, β = 1 with alternative H : β ≥ 0, β ≥ 1

0

1

2

1

1

2

ꢀ

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

1

0

0

1

0

0

0

G =

h =

1

ˆ ˆ

EI input code: hyptest(Σ, β, G, h,“EI”)

IU test: H : β ≥ 0, β ≥ 1 with alternative H : β ∈ R, β ∈ R

0

1

2

1

1

2

ꢀ

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

1

0

0

1

0

0

0

1

G =

h =

ˆ ˆ

IU input code: hyptest(Σ, β, G, h,“IU”)

1



<a name="br2"></a> 

2\.1.5. Code. The hyptest function is displayed below:

2\.2. complex hyptest.

2\.2.1. Usage. The complex hyptest function can perform both EI and IU tests like hyptest, but adds a level

of complexity to the problem. Unlike hyptest, complex hyptest tacks on another set of equality restrictions

(Ax=b) into the null hypothesis. In both the EI and IU cases, the alternative associated with these new

constraints is unrestricted. It is easiest to see exactly what the null and the alternative being implemented

in complex hyptest by looking at the example section.

2\.2.2. Inputs. complex hyptest requires 7 inputs

cov: The estimated covariance matrix of your data

mean hat: The estimated mean

G: The hypothesized quadratic constraint matrix so that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

h: The hypothesized quadratic constraint vector such that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

A: The hypothesized quadratic equality constraint matrix such that Ax=b

b: The hypothesized quadratic equality constraint vector such that Ax=b

type: To run the IU test, input “IU”. To run the EI test, input “EI”

2\.2.3. Return. Graphs the distribution of the test statistic and outputs a parametrically and non-parametrically

calculated p-value associated with the Beta hat given the covariance structure and null constraints.

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>×3

2\.2.4. Example. Below is an example where β ∈

with covariance Σ ∈

IU test: H : β + 2β ≥ 0, 3β + 4β ≥ 1, 5β + 6β = 1 vs unconstrained H : β ∈ R<sup>3</sup>.

0

1

2

2

3

1

3

1

ꢀ

IU input code: complex hyptest(Σ, β, G, h, A, b,“IU”)

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

ꢂ

ꢃ

ꢂ ꢃ

1

0

2

3

0

4

0

G =

h =

A = 5

0

6

b = 1

1

ˆ ˆ

EI test: H : β + 2β = 0, 3β + 4β = 1, 5β + 6β = 1 vs H : β + 2β ≥ 0, 3β + 4β ≥ 1.

0

1

2

2

3

1

3

1

1

2

2

3

ꢀ

EI input code: complex hyptest(Σ, β, G, h, A, b,“EI”)

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

ꢂ

ꢃ

ꢂ ꢃ

1

0

2

3

0

4

0

1

G =

h =

A = 5

0

6

b = 1

ˆ ˆ

Notice how in both cases, the new constraints deﬁned by A and b bind with equality in the null hypothesis but

do not make an appearace in the alternative, because they are unrestricted under the alternative distribution.

2\.3. mult power.

2\.3.1. Usage. The mult power function determines the power of a given alternative vs the least favorable

null hypothesis at the given α level. It serves as a valuable supplement to the hyptest functions in this

package, but can also be a strong stand-alone tool that can determine the the power in any problem where

there is null hypothesis deﬁned by equality or inequality constraints.

2\.3.2. Inputs. mult power requires 7 inputs and has 1 optional input

cov: The estimated covariance matrix of your data

true mu: The mean you wish to test against the null constraints (Use estimated mean)

G: The hypothesized quadratic constraint matrix so that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

h: The hypothesized quadratic constraint vector such that Gx≥h or Gx=h (type dependent)

A: The hypothesized quadratic equality constraint matrix such that Ax=b

b: The hypothesized quadratic equality constraint vector such that Ax=b

type: To calculate the power associated with the IU test, input “IU”. To calculate the power associated

with the EI test, input “EI”

(\*optional input) alpha: Alpha is set to .05 by default, but should you wish to obtain the power at a

diﬀerent signiﬁgance level, you may enter it in as an optional 8th input.

2\.3.3. Return. Computes and returns the power of true mu vs the least favorable mean given the constraints.

2



<a name="br3"></a> 

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>

ˆ

R<sup>3</sup>×3

2\.3.4. Example. Below is an example where the term is β ∈

with covariance Σ ∈

IU Power: H : β + 2β ≥ 0, 3β + 4β ≥ 1, 5β + 6β = 1 vs unconstrained H : β ∈ R<sup>3</sup>.

0

1

2

2

3

1

3

1

ꢀ

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

ꢂ

ꢃ

ꢂ ꢃ

1

0

2

3

0

4

0

1

G =

h =

A = 5

0

6

b = 1

ˆ ˆ

IU Power code: mult power(Σ, β, G, h, A, b,“IU”)

EI Power: H : β + 2β = 0, 3β + 4β = 1, 5β + 6β = 1 vs H : β + 2β ≥ 0, 3β + 4β ≥ 1.

0

1

2

2

3

1

3

1

1

2

2

3

ꢀ

ꢁ

ꢀ ꢁ

ꢂ

ꢃ

ꢂ ꢃ

1

0

2

3

0

4

0

1

G =

h =

A = 5

0

6

b = 1

ˆ ˆ

EI Power: mult power(Σ, β, G, h, A, b,“EI”,.1)

3\. Disclaimer

While this package is versatile, it does require certain conditions to be met. Firstly, the term being tested

must be distributed normally. It is easy to tell if this condition is being violated, because the parametric

and non-parametric p-values generated using hyptest or complex hyptest will be drastically diﬀerent. The

second condition is that the covariance matrix must be positive semi-deﬁnite. Otherwise, the program will

not be able to invert the matrix and the quadratic optimization program will fail. The last and most

important condition is that there cannot be more total constraints than the tested term’s dimension and

these constraints must be linearly independent. In the complex hyptest case, it is especially easy to violate

this condition because there are two constraint matrices, G and A. Make sure that the the combined matrix,

ꢀ ꢁ

G

A

is full row rank and has rows ≤ the dimension of the term being tested. Otherwise, the functions will

either fail to run or will produce erroneous results.

4\. Installation

Download this repository and extract it. From the directory where the Multhyptest is located type

devtools::install() into the R console. After the installation is complete, you can load the library by typing

library(Multhyptest).

5\. Navigation

All code is located within the R folder. Abbreviated instructions to use each function can be found in

the man folder. The description ﬁle has an abbreviated description and also has my contact information for

any feedback about the package. Lastly, the folder labeled ... loops back to the original Multhyptest folder.

It has no purpose for the user.

3

